<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 MD025 -->

# A3s API Documentation

> Version: 1

## core

### Issue

Issues a new a normalized token using various authentication sources.

#### Example

```json
{
  "restrictedNamespace": "/namespace",
  "restrictedNetworks": [
    "10.0.0.0/8",
    "127.0.0.1/32"
  ],
  "restrictedPermissions": [
    "dogs,post"
  ],
  "source": "OIDC",
  "validity": "24h"
}
```

#### Relations

##### `POST /issue`

Ask to issue a new authentication token.

Parameters:

- `asCookie` (`boolean`): If set to true, the token will be delivered in a secure cookie, and not in the response body.

#### Attributes

##### `metadata`

Type: `map[string]interface{}`

Contains various additional information. Meaning depends on the `source`.

##### `opaque`

Type: `map[string]string`

Opaque data that will be included in the issued token.

##### `restrictedNamespace`

Type: `string`

Restricts the namespace where the token can be used.

For instance, if you have have access to `/namespace` and below, you can
tell the policy engine that it should restrict further more to
`/namespace/child`.

Restricting to a namespace you don't have initially access according to the
policy engine has no effect and may end up making the token unusable.

##### `restrictedNetworks`

Type: `[]string`

Restricts the networks from where the token can be used. This will reduce the
existing set of authorized networks that normally apply to the token according
to the policy engine.

For instance, If you have authorized access from `0.0.0.0/0` (by default) or
from
`10.0.0.0/8`, you can ask for a token that will only be valid if used from
`10.1.0.0/16`.

Restricting to a network that is not initially authorized by the policy
engine has no effect and may end up making the token unusable.

##### `restrictedPermissions`

Type: `[]string`

Restricts the permissions of token. This will reduce the existing permissions
that normally apply to the token according to the policy engine.

For instance, if you have administrative role, you can ask for a token that will
tell the policy engine to reduce the permission it would have granted to what is
given defined in the token.

Restricting to some permissions you don't initially have according to the policy
engine has no effect and may end up making the token unusable.

##### `source` [`required`]

Type: `enum(AWSSecurityToken | Certificate | LDAP | GCPIdentityToken | AzureIdentityToken | OIDC | SAML | A3SIdentityToken)`

The authentication source. This will define how to verify
credentials from internal or external source of authentication.

##### `token` [`autogenerated`,`read_only`]

Type: `string`

Issued token.

##### `validity`

Type: `string`

Configures the maximum length of validity for a token, using
[Golang duration syntax](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#example_Duration). If it
is bigger than the configured max validity, it will be capped. Default: `24h`.

Default value:

```json
"24h"
```

## policy

### Authorization

TODO.

#### Example

```json
{
  "disabled": false,
  "hidden": false,
  "permissions": [
    "@auth:role=namespace.administrator",
    "namespace,get,post,put",
    "authorization,get:1234567890"
  ],
  "targetNamespace": "/my/namespace"
}
```

#### Relations

##### `GET /authorizations`

Retrieves the list of authorization.

##### `POST /authorizations`

Creates a new authorization.

##### `DELETE /authorizations/:id`

Deletes the authorization with the given ID.

Parameters:

- `q` (`string`): This is an example.

##### `GET /authorizations/:id`

Retrieves the authorization with the given ID.

##### `PUT /authorizations/:id`

Updates the authorization with the given ID.

#### Attributes

##### `ID` [`identifier`,`autogenerated`,`read_only`]

Type: `string`

ID is the identifier of the object.

##### `disabled`

Type: `boolean`

Set the authorization to be disabled.

##### `hidden`

Type: `boolean`

Hides the policies in children namespaces.

##### `namespace` [`autogenerated`,`read_only`]

Type: `string`

The namespace of the object.

##### `permissions` [`required`]

Type: `[]string`

A list of permissions.

##### `subject`

Type: `[][]string`

A tag expression that identifies the authorized user(s).

##### `subnets`

Type: `[]string`

If set, the API authorization will only be valid if the request comes from one
the declared subnets.

##### `targetNamespace` [`required`]

Type: `string`

Defines the namespace or namespaces in which the permission for subject should
apply.

### Namespace

A namespace is grouping object. Every object is part of a namespace, and every
request is made against a namespace. Namespaces form a tree hierarchy.

#### Example

```json
{
  "name": "mycompany"
}
```

#### Relations

##### `GET /namespaces`

Retrieves the list of namespaces.

##### `POST /namespaces`

Creates a new namespace.

##### `DELETE /namespaces/:id`

Delete a particular namespace object.

##### `GET /namespaces/:id`

Get a particular namespace object.

##### `PUT /namespaces/:id`

Update a particular namespace object.

#### Attributes

##### `ID` [`identifier`,`autogenerated`,`read_only`]

Type: `string`

ID is the identifier of the object.

##### `description`

Type: `string`

The description of the object.

##### `name` [`required`,`creation_only`,`format=^[a-zA-Z0-9_/]+$`]

Type: `string`

The name of the namespace. When you create a namespace, only put its bare name,
not its full path.

##### `namespace` [`autogenerated`,`read_only`]

Type: `string`

The namespace of the object.
